Bootstrap Architectural Design Records (ADR) in our documentation (#512)
input-output-hk/plutus-apps: doc/adr/0001-record-architecture-decisions.rst

ADR 1: Record architectural decisions
=====================================

> Date: 2022-06-08

Reviewer: Note that the hydra people put it in the filename for some reason: https://github.com/input-output-hk/hydra-poc/blob/master/docs/adr/2021-06-05_001-record-architectural-decisions.md

> Date: 2022-06-08

Author: Hydra said they put the date in the filename for the website static site generator.

Status
------

Draft

Context
-------

We are in search for a means to document our architectural and design decisions
for all of our components.
In order to do that, there is practice called architectural decision records ("ADR"),
that we can integrate into our workflow.

> This does not replace actual architecture documentation, but provides contributors:

Author: ```suggestion
This does not replace actual architecture documentation, but provides people who are contributing:
```

* the means to understand architectural and design decisions that were made
* a framework for proposing changes to the current architecture

For each decision, it is important to consider the following factors:

* what we have decided to do
* why we have made this decision
* what we expect the impact of this decision to be
* what we have learned in the process

As we're already using `rST <https://docutils.sourceforge.io/rst.html>`_, `Sphinxdoc <https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/>`_ and `readthedocs <https://readthedocs.org/>`_, it would be practical to
integrate these ADRs as part of our current documentation infrastructure.

Decision
--------

* We will use ADRs to document, propose and discuss
  any important or significant architectural and design decisions.

* The ADR format will follow the format described in `Consequences`_ section.

> * We will follow the convention of storing those ADRs as Markdown formatted

Author: I tried to use Markdown, but it didn't work. It would work locally, but when using the nix-build command, it would get the error:
```
> Warning, treated as error:
> /build/source/adr/index.rst:29:toctree contains reference to nonexisting document 'adr/0002-test'

```

> * We will follow the convention of storing those ADRs as Markdown formatted

Reviewer: change `doc/default.nix` line 4 to contain `".md"` also.

> * We will follow the convention of storing those ADRs as Markdown formatted

Reviewer: up to you :shrug: I think if you don't care much about cross-references it's not a big deal

  documents stored under the `docs/adr` directory, as exemplified in Nat Pryce's
  `adr-tools <https://github.com/npryce/adr-tools>`_. This does not imply that we will
  be using `adr-tools` itself, as we might diverge from the proposed structure.

* We will keep rejected ADRs

* TODO: Add decision about **when** we should create an ADR (see PR discussions)

Consequences
------------

ADRs should be written using the template described in the `ADR template`_ which comes from
Chapter 6.5.2 (*A Template for Documenting Architectural Decisions*) of
*Documenting Software Architectures: Views and Beyond (2nd Edition)*.

> However, the mandatory sections are *Title*, *Issue*, *Decision*, *Status*, *Implications*.

Author: It's actually called "Implications" in the description of the template.

> However, the mandatory sections are *Title*, *Issue*, *Decision*, *Status*, *Implications*.

Reviewer: But you used "Consequences" in this ADR, which is why I was confused.

The rest are optional.

Another good reference is the article `Architecture Decision Records <https://cognitect.com/blog/2011/11/15/documenting-architecture-decisions>`_ by Michael Nygard (Nov. 15, 2011).

ADR template
^^^^^^^^^^^^

What follows is the ADR format (adapted from the book).

> ============================== ===========

Author: Tables in rST are really annoying to make...

Reviewer 2: :people_hugging:
